The resistance of 6-[(R)-2-[3-(3,4-dihydroxybenzoyl)-3-(3-hydroxypropyl)-1-ureido]-2- phenylacetamido]penicillanic acid (1a) to metabolism by catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT) was increased by introduction of the chlorine atom into the catechol moiety. Penicillins (1b-1d) having one or two chlorine atoms at the positions adjacent to the hydroxyl group were found to have greater stability to COMT. This resulted in greater efficiency in vivo in experimental Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Escherichia coli infections. In vitro activities were essentially unchanged.
=====
Bacillus subtilis ferrochelatase is encoded by the hemH gene of the hemEHY gene cluster and catalyses the incorporation of Fe2+ into protoporphyrin IX. B. subtilis ferrochelatase produced in Escherichia coli was purified. It was found to be a monomeric, water-soluble enzyme of molecular mass 35 kDa which in addition to Fe2+ can incorporate Zn2+ and Cu2+ into protoporphyrin IX. Chemical modification experiments indicated that the single cysteine residue in the ferrochelatase is required for enzyme activity although it is not a conserved residue compared to other ferrochelatases. In growing B. subtilis, the ferrochelatase constitutes approximately 0.05% (by mass) of the total cell protein, which corresponds to some 600 ferrochelatase molecules/cell. The turnover number of isolated ferrochelatase, 18-29 min-1, was found to be consistent with the rate of haem synthesis in exponentially growing cells (0.2 mol haem formed/min/mol enzyme). It is concluded that the B. subtilis ferrochelatase has enzymic properties which are similar to those of other characterised ferrochelatases of known primary structure, i.e. ferrochelatases of the mitochondrial inner membrane of yeast and mammalian cells. However, in contrast to these enzymes the B. subtilis enzyme is a water-soluble protein and should be more amenable to structural analysis.
=====
The findings of many authors show that reduced fetal growth is followed by increased mortality from cardiovascular disease in adult life. They are further evidence that cardiovascular disease originates, among other risk factors, through programming of the bodies structure and metabolism during fetal and early post-natal life. Wrong maternal nutrition may have an important influence on programming.